Beyoncé isn’t the only one hitting the lab with Odd Future’s resident crooner Frank Ocean.  The singer-songwriter recently put in studio time with Nas, revealing that he was cooking up some new material with the hip-hop veteran.“Just played nas a song…on piano. in that moment i realized, im getting a lil better at piano. i gotta keep practicing though,” tweeted Ocean. “yea. nas. like ‘top 5 dead or alive’ nas.”Though unclear where the collaboration will end up, Nas confirmed the duo was creating music together.  “In the studio with my little n—a @frank_ocean,” he wrote.A video for Ocean’s nostalgia, ultra cut “Songs for Women” surfaced online last week, but he denied its authenticity.  “not my video,” tweeted Ocean, adding, “sorry. but that songs for women video was a fail.”Tweets by RapUp Congrats are in order for Kehlani.

The 23-year-old singer has announced that she is four months pregnant with her first chid, …God's plan. After squashing his beef and bringing out Meek Mill during his Boston tour stop last month, Drake put …Usher has a big surprise for fans.

The R&B; superstar is set to release his ninth studio album A at midnight …After teasing the song back in January, Drake unites with Bad Bunny on the reggaeton superstar's long-awaited single "MIA."

Champagne Papi …Lil Kodak continues to win. After collaborating with Bruno Mars and Gucci Mane, the Florida rapper teams up with Travis …The wait is over. After dominating the charts as part of Migos, Quavo is officially the first to go solo. …Ariana Grande and Pete Davidson are over.

The singer, 25, and "SNL" star, 24, called off their engagement over the weekend, …Quavo is going on record about his rumored relationship with Nicki Minaj.

The Migos rapper's solo debut Quavo Huncho arrived Friday …Drake is breaking his silence on his beef with Kanye West and Pusha-T.

During an interview for HBO's sports talk show …T.I. has spoken.

Following Kanye West's controversial meeting with Donald Trump at the White House today, the Dime Trap rapper is …Ariana Grande and Pete Davidson are over.

The singer, 25, and "SNL" star, 24, called off their engagement over the weekend, …Drake is breaking his silence on his beef with Kanye West and Pusha-T.

During an interview for HBO's sports talk show …God's plan. After squashing his beef and bringing out Meek Mill during his Boston tour stop last month, Drake put …Mark your calendars. Tory Lanez has announced a release date for his long-awaited album Love Me Now?

The R&B; crooner's new …Fresh off a successful festival in the Bay Area, Rolling Loud heads back to Los Angeles this December. 

Now in …Congrats are in order for Kehlani.

The 23-year-old singer has announced that she is four months pregnant with her first chid, …Khalid is taking fans to Suncity on his new EP.

The R&B; crooner has announced an Oct. 19 release date for …Quavo is going on record about his rumored relationship with Nicki Minaj.

The Migos rapper's solo debut Quavo Huncho arrived Friday …Plies teams up with Kevin Gates on his new single "All Thee Above."

The song is a celebration of the women …It may only be October, but John Legend is getting in the Christmas spirit. 

The EGOT winner has released the …%post_excerpt%

Kid Cudi's rock project Wizard is no more.  Instead, the Lonely Stoner has announced that he has changed the …

Kid Cudi's rock project Wizard is no more.  Instead, the Lonely Stoner has announced that he has changed the …

Nicki Minaj and Britney Spears partied like it was 2012 during the after-party for Lil Wayne's "I Am Still Music" …

Nicki Minaj and Britney Spears partied like it was 2012 during the after-party for Lil Wayne's "I Am Still Music" …