christopher francis ocean (born christopher lonny edwin breaux; october 28, 1987) is an american singer, songwriter, rapper, record producer and photographer.
ocean began his musical career as a ghostwriter, prior to joining hip hop collective odd future in 2010. the mixtape was a critical success, and generated the single novacane, which peaked at number 82 on the billboard hot 100 and was later certified platinum.
ocean subsequently secured a recording contract with def jam recordings in 2012. ocean released his debut studio album, channel orange, in july 2012; it debuted at number two on the billboard 200 and was soon certified platinum.
the album received universal acclaim from critics, and won ocean his first grammy award, for best urban contemporary album.
the album contained the singles thinkin bout you, pyramids, and sweet life, with the former peaking inside the top 40 in the us and gaining him a nomination for record of the year at the 55th annual grammy awards.
his second album, blonde, was released in 2016, and was subject to controversy after ocean endured protracted contract disputes with def jam, which led to the album suffering repeated delays.
ocean is known for his idiosyncratic musical style, introspective and elliptical songwriting, unconventional production techniques, and a wide vocal range.
ocean was born on october 28, 1987, in long beach, california.
ocean was first introduced to music through his mother, who would often play recordings by jazz musicians on her car stereo, which included albums by celine dion and anita baker, as well as the soundtrack to the phantom of the opera musical.
after hurricane katrina hit ocean's hometown of new orleans, it destroyed his home, and his personal recording facility was destroyed by floodwater and looting.
after getting a songwriting deal, he started working with other record producers and wrote songs for justin bieber, john legend, brandy, ocean later said of his work at the time, there was a point where i was composing for other people, and it might have been comfy to continue to do that and enjoy that income stream and the anonymity.
but that's not why i moved away from school and away from family.
ocean joined los angeles-based hip hop collective odd future, whom he had met in 2009. on february 18, 2011, ocean released his first mixtape, nostalgia, ultra, to critical acclaim.
in april 2011, ocean stated that his relationship with def jam strengthened since the release of the mixtape.
ocean first appeared in tyler, the creator's music video for the single she, from tyler's debut studio album goblin (2011).
in june 2011, ocean revealed that he would work on the upcoming kanye west and jay-z collaborative album, watch the throne.
on july 28, 2011, a song titled thinkin bout you, leaked on the internet.
ocean released the cover art for his debut studio album's lead single, titled thinkin bout you, revealing the song would be released to digital retailers on april 10, 2012.
—alexis petridis, 2012 in 2012, ocean released his debut studio album channel orange to universal acclaim from critics, who later named it the best album of the year in the hmv's poll of polls.
it also earned ocean six grammy award nominations and was credited by some writers for moving the r&b genre in a different, more challenging direction.
considered as ocean's first commercial release on a traditional record label, channel orange featured unconventional songs that were noted for their storytelling and social commentary, and a dense musical fusion that drew on hip hop, soul, and r&b.
funk and electric music also influenced his album.
the songs about unrequited love in particular received the most attention, partly because of ocean's announcement prior to the album's release, when he revealed that his first love was a man.
the announcement made global headlines, and some critics compared its cultural impact to when david bowie revealed that he was bisexual in 1972. channel orange debuted at number two on the billboard 200 and sold 131,000 copies in its first week.
on may 28, 2013, ocean announced the you're not dead ... 2013 tour; a fourteen-date european and canadian tour that began on june 16, 2013, in munich.
he had been scheduled to perform at the first night of ovo fest on august 4, 2013; however he was forced to cancel his appearance due to a small vocal cord injury.
the first night of the music festival was subsequently cancelled and james blake was booked to appear during the second night as ocean's replacement.
in february 2013, ocean confirmed that he had started work on his second studio album, which he confirmed would be another concept album.
he revealed that he was working with tyler, the creator, pharrell williams, and danger mouse on the record.
on march 10, 2014, the song hero was made available for free download on soundcloud.
the song is a collaboration with mick jones, paul simonon and diplo and is a part of converse's three artists.
one song series.
in april 2014, ocean stated that his second album was nearly finished.
in june, billboard reported that the singer was working with a string of artists such as happy perez (whom he worked with on nostalgia, ultra), charlie gambetta and kevin ristro, while producers hit-boy, rodney jerkins and danger mouse were also said to be on board.
in july 2016, he hinted at a possible second album with an image on his website pointing to a july release date.
by august 1, 2016, at approximately 3 am, an endless live stream shot in negative lighting in what is allegedly a brooklyn warehouse, on august 18 and 19, 2016, the live stream was accompanied with music and at midnight an apple music link was directed to a project called endless.
at midnight pacific time on august 20, 2016, a music video for a song titled nikes was uploaded to ocean's connect page on apple music and later to his own website.
on february 21, 2017, scottish dj and producer calvin harris announced the song slide, a collaboration between harris, ocean and migos, from harris' fifth studio album funk wav bounces vol.
1. ocean is credited with featured vocals and songwriting, while production is handled by harris.
the song was released on february 24, 2017 and featured on the first episode of ocean's beats 1 radio show, blonded radio.
it is also ocean's first recorded collaboration since leaving def jam, with ocean being listed in the liner notes as appear on subsequent episodes of blonded radio in april, ocean premiered biking featuring jay-z and tyler the creator, lens, as well as an alternate version featuring travis scott, and a remix of endless track slide on me featuring young thug.
on may 15 ocean was featured on asap mob's raf, premiered on blonded alongside a solo version of biking.
on august 28, ocean released another single, provider, on blonded radio.
in october 2017, ocean published a photo essay titled new 17 to british magazine i-d. in the essay, ocean said if you liked two thousand and seventeen then you'll love two thousand and eighteen.
in november 2017, ocean hinted via tumblr that his fifth project was complete.
on february 14, 2018, ocean released moon river, a cover of the song performed by audrey hepburn in the 1961 film, breakfast at tiffany's.
in may 2018, ocean was featured on the tracks brotha man and purity from asap rocky's third studio album testing.
in august 2018, ocean provided an uncredited appearance on the song carousel on travis scott's album astroworld.
in september 2018, ocean took legal action against scott through a cease and desist letter, many speculating this was due to scott's unauthorised autotune of ocean's vocals.
ocean later confirmed through a tumblr post that the dispute was about social issues, not music, and had since been resolved between the two artists.
on november 6, 2018, three midterm specials of blonded radio were aired throughout the day, in collation with the midterm elections that were held in the us, as well as the release of new merchandise given to those with proof of voting for free in houston, atlanta, miami, and dallas.
ocean's music has been characterized by music writers as idiosyncratic in style.
ocean's lyrics deal with themes of love, longing, misgiving, ocean describes himself as a baritone, with tenor moments.
on august 20, 2016, ocean released a 360-page magazine, boys don't cry, alongside with his long-awaited second album blonde.
on may 1, 2017, ocean attended annual met gala as a special photographer for vogue.
in a 2011 interview, ocean stated that he had attempted to change his name to christopher francis ocean through a legal website on his 2010 birthday.
ocean wrote an open letter, initially intended for the liner notes on channel orange, that preemptively addressed speculation about his attraction in the past to another man.
ocean appears in a 2013 video game grand theft auto v as himself playing the host of an in-game radio station called blonded los santos 97.8 fm.
he also lends the songs provider, ivy, crack rock, chanel, nights and pretty sweet, and sings station jingles.
in june 2016, following the orlando gay nightclub shooting that killed 49 people, ocean published an essay expressing his sadness and frustration regarding the event.
ocean sampled the music from the eagles' song hotel california on the song american wedding from nostalgia, ultra.
when asked about it, ocean stated that eagles band member don henley is apparently intimidated by my rendition of 'hotel california'.
he threatened to sue if i perform it again.
in response to ocean's comments, the eagles' legal representative released a statement: frank ocean did not merely 'sample' a portion of the eagles' 'hotel california,' he took the whole master track, plus the song's existing melody, and replaced the lyrics with his own.
this is not creative, let alone 'intimidating.'
it's illegal.
for the record, don henley has not threatened or instituted any legal action against frank ocean, although the eagles are now considering whether they should.
on march 7, 2014, chipotle mexican grill sued ocean to receive the money back they paid him in advance for a commercial that he backed out of due to his having a problem with the material in the advertisement.
the advertisement was to feature ocean singing the song pure imagination, and was to promote sustainable farming.
ocean backed out of the spot when chipotle refused to remove their logo and name from the advertisement.
studio albums
