odd futures most recognizable members tyler, the creator and frank ocean recently went in front of the lens to film a video for she, the second single from tylers solo album goblin (may 10).
the ofwgkta frontman shot scenes in a los angeles neighborhood with a pretty young thing as his leading lady.singer-songwriter ocean played double duty as a cop and the man of the house, almost unrecognizable in a white wig and drab attire.
in one of the more chilling images, tyler stares into the camera as a gun is pointed at his head, wearing the same black contacts he sported in his viral sensation yonkers.browse more pics from the odd future clans shoot below.
#gallery-1 { margin: auto; } #gallery-1 .gallery-item { float: left; margin-top: 10px; text-align: center; width: 33%; } #gallery-1 img { border: 2px solid #cfcfcf; } #gallery-1 .gallery-caption { margin-left: 0; } /* see gallery_shortcode() in wp-includes/media.php */ tweets by rapup tory lanez wants more smoke.
in the midst of a rap battle with joyner lucas, the miami rapper-singer has set his …tekashi 6ix9ine is spending thanksgiving in a federal facility.
the fefe rapper has been transferred from brooklyn's metropolitan detention center to …6ix9ine's album has been put on hold.
following his arrest on racketeering and firearms charges, the rapper's debut album dummy boy …round 3. joyner lucas and tory lanez's rap battle continues with yet another remix.
following tory's lucky you freestyle and their …this that z sh*t. kodak black celebrates black friday by unleashing a video for his hit zeze featuring travis scott …while he awaits his bail hearing, 6ix9ine is sparking more controversy for ordering a hit on chief keef's cousin.
in the …meek mill is giving his fans new music this thanksgiving.
as he gears up for his new album championships next week, …nicki minaj is standing by 6ix9ine's side.
following his indictment for racketeering, armed robbery, and drug trafficking, the embattled mc is …the battle wages on.
after joyner lucas challenged tory lanez to a rap battle, the love me now?
rapper-singer responded with …kanye west is giving back this thanksgiving.
during her appearance on the ellen degeneres show, kim kardashian announced that west, yeezy, …congratulations are in order for juelz santana and kimbella.
the harlem rapper proposed to his longtime girlfriend in front of friends …while he awaits his bail hearing, 6ix9ine is sparking more controversy for ordering a hit on chief keef's cousin.
in the …go kelly go!
five years since her last album, kelly rowland returned with new music on thanksgiving night.
on the …this that z sh*t. kodak black celebrates black friday by unleashing a video for his hit zeze featuring travis scott …round 3. joyner lucas and tory lanez's rap battle continues with yet another remix.
following tory's lucky you freestyle and their …meek mill is giving his fans new music this thanksgiving.
as he gears up for his new album championships next week, …tekashi 6ix9ine is spending thanksgiving in a federal facility.
the fefe rapper has been transferred from brooklyn's metropolitan detention center to …nicki minaj is standing by 6ix9ine's side.
following his indictment for racketeering, armed robbery, and drug trafficking, the embattled mc is …h.e.r.
paid tribute to the king of pop during her stirring late-night performance on jimmy kimmel live!
with a guitar in …tory lanez wants more smoke.
in the midst of a rap battle with joyner lucas, the miami rapper-singer has set his …%post_excerpt% game's son may be following in his dad's showbiz footsteps.
the red nation rapper posted a video of his … game's son may be following in his dad's showbiz footsteps.
the red nation rapper posted a video of his … adrienne bailon is singing a new tune.
after attempting to go solo, the former cheetah girl is switching up … adrienne bailon is singing a new tune.
after attempting to go solo, the former cheetah girl is switching up …
