'carl weber's the family business' official promo the girls gather dani french montana tells raquel theres no bad blood with the kardashians fans will not be happy about this male r&b singer calling out beyoncé, sza and cardi b hip-hop reacts to the tragic death of leah labelle french montana: the american dream made you look: during the rise of hip hop's most extravagant era, a new star was born — the video vixen | vixen.
spike lee and topher grace on using the n-word producer will packer on the set of 'what men want' #couplecam: karrueche and victor cruz just landed smoking hot holiday campaign watch cardi b slay a sexy trench while nailing her role as a personal assistant for amazon see how yusef williams became rihanna's hairstylist for a decade see how meagan good uplifted leslie jones with a moving, body-posi message the revolution will be televised!
auntie maxine's got a message for trump!
ms. new booty!
: k. michelle debuts her real butt after getting implants removed michelle obama hilariously breaks down why melania trump's inauguration gift exchange appeared so awkward this 13-year-old cheerleader serving some serious sassy face is taking over twitter as everyone's new favorite meme man films racist old navy encounter where store managers accused him of stealing the jacket he wore to the store check out who's being interviewed on 'raq rants'!
extras & exclusives soul train awards published july 9, 2012in less than a week, r&b musician and odd future member frank ocean has gone from urban music fame to garnering mainstream support for his personal decision to publicly reveal he fell in love with a man.
set to release his first studio album, channel orange, on july 17, oceans manager, kelly clancy, tweeted some great news about his july tour: frank oceans national july tour is sold out in all cities… with 15 cities lined up between july 13 and august 4, ocean will start in seattle, making his way to vancouver, san francisco, los angeles, austin, dallas, atlanta, washington, dc, philadelphia, new york, boston, montreal, toronto and detroit.
hell end in chicago at the lollapalooza festival on august 4. bet.com entertainment editor clay cane predicted that oceans success would only catapult after vulnerably sharing the details of his sexuality.
he wrote: mark my words: frank ocean admitting his sexual fluidity will not ruin his career.
there will be a reward for his honesty.
living in his truth will make the doors swing open like they never did before.
with a sold out tour and high acclaim for his first album, ocean, who proclaimed himself a free man, seems to be on the rise.
the odd future crooner will perform on late night with jimmy fallon tonight at 12:35 a.m./11:35 p.m. ct. bet.com is your #1 source for black celebrity news, photos, exclusive videos and all the latest in the world of hip hop and r&b music.
click here to subscribe to our newsletter.
(photo: karl walter/getty images for coachella)written by arielle loren trending in news the former flotus also explained to ellen degeneres how barack stepped in and saved the day.
when my teacher asks me a question thinking i'm not paying attention, but i get it right.
james conley iii says the employees never apologized after they realized their mistake.
dayspresented by
