hes the singer/songwriter who emerged this year to be the one everyones watching.
frank oceans free mixtape catapulted him to your consciousness, and now he wants to stay there.
its deeper than r&b.words by elliott wilsonimages by nabil elderkinmr.
ocean stopped by the otolaryngologists office this morning.
the most embraced singer in the hip-hop community wanted to make extra sure that the long hours in the studio working on his upcoming album hadnt damaged his voice.
the man behind the acclaimed mixtape of the year, nostalgia, ultra, is giddy as he shows me an x-ray of his throat.
the doc gave him a clean bill of health, and now lonny breaux can continue his journey.mr.
ocean also got a tattoo removed today, as evidenced by the big bandage sticking out from under his gray t-shirt, on the left side of his chest.
yup, this nawlins native is a tad eccentric.
but hey, hed have to be in order to be a member of the rambunctious force known as odd future.
this interview took place at platinum studios in cali, during a recording session of of front man tyler the creator, who often interrupted things to crack jokes about bet and to lament the fact that hes still nursing a broken foot.yup, its a family affair as husband-and-wife management duo christian and kelly clancy hold court, and the somewhat shy and guarded vocalist opens up about his life.
like tyler, ocean is not a fan of being a part of something like an interview, where he doesnt have complete creative control over how it turns out.
after attempting to answer my initial questions with typed answers on his computer, i advised dude to counter-record our convo on his iphone for evidence of any misquotes.
heres hoping i dont fuck this up.respect.
: the shoot to this story looks like its gonna be pretty interesting.frank ocean: i was always saying that if ever i was allowed to make a whole lot of money in this business, or any other business for that matter, i would move to an island that i either have a long-term lease on or that id own.
id only wear short shorts and diamonds the whole time im there.
not too short, just a bit above the knee, you know.
but i took that fantasy and made a photo shoot out of it, and thats what we did with you guys.and youre real comfortable with the photographer we chose.yeah, i worked with nabil had just gotten a position there, and he was like, i think youre special.
i was so nonchalant about it, because i think, as a songwriter, when you get on that side of it, it disillusions becoming a recording artist a little.
it rubs a little bit of the makeup off the face.
so once you signed, you werent as elated as one might think?right.
but at the time that i signed, i did still think, im gonna do this, that and the third.
i had strategies all lined up, release schedules, and heres how were gonna put the show together, and this is what were gonna do to create a buzz and make sure people are there.
months and months went on, and none of those ideas or strategies were being funded, and i was just like, fuck—studio wasnt funded, and a bunch of things.
and it disappointed me, but at the same time, my nature is like, its gonna get done no matter what.
no matter who jumps off the train, im gonna get it.so thats how nostalgia came about?yeah, thats nostalgia.
once i started writing in march 2010—march to may, maybe, i was writing, and all throughout, trying to lock down studios to record this shit.
i had contact with tricky, cause tricky was my guy there.
he was the one who signed me, and you know, all i kept getting was the fucking runaround, you know?
i mean, me and tricky talked about it, were cool, you know, but if we are talking about the past, thats what happened.so if they were paying attention, they should have known you were making this incredible record?yeah!
i didnt know how special it was—i mean, i knew it was good because i know im good, and i know people who are good often know they are good at something, and thats fine.
i mean, you dont know how many songs i wrote.okay, so you cut it down…like, for nostalgia, i wrote a pretty modest number of songs.
but even before, im just saying i was creating songs on such a regular basis.
this was the first time i was like, pick these that i like, and im gonna finish these and add anything that comes to mind to make them like perfect in my eyes.
an old friend of mine told me that songs you dont finish—they just end up in an interesting place or they dont.
i would work on these songs until they were in an interesting place, and it was the first time i did that, sequencing it, interludes, mixing the record.
i had no idea that people would connect.
i didnt do any promotion, any lead-up.
and it was intentional.still, it seemed like as soon you dropped nostalgia, it took off.i put nostalgia out on february 16. first day it had, like, 60 downloads or something.
next day, it was tripled.
after that, it was going crazy.
still, you grow up on the internet and youre like, aight, thats cool, but what does it really mean?
like, are they gonna care a month from now?
or are they downloading it just because theres so much heat on my guys?
somebody could pull the rug out from underneath real quick.
but it hasnt been pulled yet.when did it really click for you that this project was going to jump-start your career?
was it feedback from respected peers?that meant a lot to me.
for someone like jay-z to say, oh, i really like your shit.
beyoncé or puff or lil wayne, who is one of my favorite mcs, these are people who i really respect.
its not about the money ill make this year.
its not about as soon as i got offers for five, ten, fifteen thousand to go do shows.
its about getting a show ready and really doin a show right, and doin your best to just give your best.im not about to go and do every feature that comes forward.
i think people in the urban music scene place too much of a premium on collaborations to begin with.
thats the first thing.
and second, i think that people shouldnt be on magazines that they wouldnt read and shouldnt really feature on songs that they wouldnt listen to if they werent on it.so you want to take a different path and keep things fresh?exactly.
its like a new car smell still in the business for me.
even after i spoke about being a little jaded at first on the whole recording artist idea, and the pursuit of that.
i think some of the jaded shit has worn off, cause im in a different place, and its been replaced by this certain optimism.youre being recognized now, which probably fuels more art.it does, it does.
like when i wrote the second album, which im finishing up now, trying to tie up all the loose ends, but its written already.
there was an interesting mind frame i had when i was writing it that was different from when i was writing nostalgia.
i felt more confident.
i wrote this project down.
im a jay-z enthusiast, and that contributed to me learning how to write in my head, and thats what i did for nostalgia.
the new album i wrote all on a laptop, all in a standard font.everyone is excited about your two appearances on watch the throne.
howd that come about?well, i worked with jay first on some of his solo stuff.
when i walked in the studio for the first time, he was the intimidating jay at first.
then he allowed me to breathe, but it was cool, though.
we worked on a song that he had a verse already written for.
he had an idea, and he gave me this dvd of jean-michel basquiat, the radiant child, which i hadnt seen yet.
it kind of had to do with the concept of the song.
he rapped his verse, which was epic as fuck.immediately i got an idea.
so i wrote out the hook, and when i was singing it, jay came in the booth.
he was like, your phrasing, low key, sounds like sting.
i was doing some experimental things with accenting, and from there we started talking briefly about where the song was going.
i had finished writing my verse, but it was lyrical, so it had to be precise.
i was just making sure my bases were covered.
then beyoncé came in, so im singing these takes in front of her.
swizz beatz came through, and everybody listened to it finished right there.
i wrapped it up, and it got a rave review from the room—it was a real cool moment.so that got you a callback for wtt?yeah, i was taking a break off the east coast run with of, and i got asked to come back when they were working on watch the throne at the mercer were there the whole time.
i had just got a cut back for the novacane video, so i played it for them.
it was one of the cooler moments id had with them so far.did they have ideas about what songs they wanted you to enhance?it was really collaborative, so we just went through beats.
kanye had a few he was excited about and really wanted to play.
church in the wild had such a legit flow.
we didnt really talk about themes, but i laid out some song concepts and hooks.
they built the songs from the hooks.
i was there when jay cut his verse for made and when kanye was writing church.
the one that i thought was on the fence was the sweet baby jesus line, but that turned out to be the one that everyone liked.
i really liked both.
kanye and jay had a big impact on me, so being able to work on a project like that is as much a part of the dream as anything else.
how do you categorize yourself?
i know youre not too comfortable with the r&b label.i just think r&b is so racial.
im going to borrow a line from duke ellington and say its beyond category.
pharrell has told me to say im a singer/songwriter, because thats what i really am.
i dont want to step off into the dont label me because im black realm, but i would say any artist that is killing it right now has long since abandoned genre and expanded past certain labels.
do you feel pressure with the next album?
are you concerned about a sophomore jinx or the perception that you cant top nostalgia?damn, you just introduced that into my conscience.
the phrase sophomore jinx hadnt even come into my head.
you just inspired an additional verse, or definitely interlude fodder.
theres definitely pressure on this album.
anyone who has something invested in this album has added to the pressure.
but im staying true to the same thing that made me successful.
i made it to the specifications of exactly what i wanted to hear.
i know some people who complain about artists creative freedom, but those people are stupid as fuck.
both projects so far have had creative freedom.
if people dont really like my shit, they just dont like my shit.
its nobodys fault, you just dont really fuck with me.
thats just how it is.
one of the things your father teaches you when growing up, is the importance of never misplacing your wallet.
i … let's face it.
music this year was great at times, but very stale at others--and even then, the great music …https://youtu.be/eqpkpwmeaxi unless you lived under a rock last year, then you've witnessed the rise of los angeles native, las vegas transfer bbknight (fka: …your email address will not be published.
required fields are marked *comment name * email * website notify me of follow-up comments by email.
notify me of new posts by email.
this site uses akismet to reduce spam.
learn how your comment data is processed.the hip-hop nation demands respect.
respect.
magazine targets a sophisticated and intelligent reader, who desires a publication that speaks to them with class and visually has soul.welcome to the new old school.
