nostalgia, ultra (stylized as nostalgia,ultra.
and occasionally nostalgia/ultra) is the debut mixtape by american singer frank ocean.
it was released on february 16, 2011. in may 2011, def jam announced its plans to release the mixtape as an ep on july 26, 2011. however, the release of the ep was indefinitely delayed in july 2011 and has since been cancelled.
two singles were released from the aborted ep version: novacane, and swim good.
both songs received music videos directed by australian director nabil elderkin.
ocean embarked on a solo concert tour through north america and europe to promote the record, playing a total of 7 shows.
in addition, his 2012 performance at the coachella music festival included several live renditions from the release including strawberry swing and lovecrimes.
the mixtape appeared on several music critics' and publications' end-of-year albums lists.
controversy arose in march 2012 over the song american wedding, a remake of the song hotel california by american rock band eagles.
recording artist kanye west was reportedly a fan of the mixtape, which led to ocean appearing on the album watch the throne.
subsequently, ocean collaborated with artists beyoncé knowles and jay-z after they were introduced to the mixtape through west.
following its release, both ocean and the mixtape have developed a cult following.
the mixtape was followed by the release of ocean's debut studio album channel orange to even greater critical acclaim in 2012. frank ocean was born in long beach, california.
when he was at the age of 10, his family moved to new orleans, louisiana.
he made the decision to pursue a career in music at a young age, and as a teen, he did neighborhood chores to fund his early studio sessions.
after hurricane katrina hit his hometown of new orleans, ocean moved to los angeles to pursue a recording career.
eventually, he landed songwriting gigs for established artists like brandy, john legend, and justin bieber where he made substantially more money.
the mixtape samples songs from radiohead, coldplay, mgmt, mr. hudson and the eagles, which ocean sings over.
in his own words, ocean calls the album nostalgic.
he explains, it's a longing for the past.
that's what this record felt like.
when asked by the quietus if the songs from the album drew from his personal experiences, frank commented my kitchen is usually pretty clean, you know.
but you have fun with the imagery, and for me the whole concept that everything has to be... like, nobody gets upset with a director when a director's film isn't about his life.
people think that with a recording artist that shit has to be like a fucking play by play of their whole life, but it's not.
it's imagery, and a little bit of satire.
the album begins with a melodic cover of strawberry swing by english alternative rock band coldplay.
several interludes are placed throughout the album, named after video games, such as street fighter, metal gear solid, goldeneye 007 and soulcalibur.
pitchfork media wrote that in a skit called bitches talkin, the ladies tell him to cut it out with the damn radiohead, while optimistic is playing in the background; in 'songs for women', he obliges—he's an indie kid when it comes to alienation but a pragmatist when it comes to sex.
the mixtape also contains several references to american director stanley kubrick and his films, most notably eyes wide shut.
swim good has been called an astonishing suicide song and that ocean finds himself dressed in black ('like i'm ready for a funeral'), tormented by heartbreak and on the verge of driving his car into the sea.
the penultimate track is american wedding, a 7-minute remake of hotel california by american rock band eagles.
nostalgia, ultra received widespread acclaim from critics.
at metacritic, which assigns a normalized rating out of 100 to reviews from mainstream publications, the mixtape received an average score of 83, based on nine reviews.
in his review for msn music, robert christgau described ocean's romantic laments as models of texture, respect, and profound loss, their beats subtle, seductive, weird, and seized like time whether he's deploying 'songs for women' that are soon trumped by drake's, not feeling a porn-moonlighting dental student and her 'novacaine,' or annulling a courthouse wedding solemnized just before his bride turned in her term paper on hijab.
on may 19, 2011, ocean's record label def jam announced its plans to release an ep containing tracks from nostalgia, ultra.
novacane was officially released as the first single from nostalgia, ultra on may 31, 2011. swim good was released as the second single from the mixtape on october 18, 2011, and the song charted at position 70 on the billboard r&b chart for three weeks.
ocean embarked on a six-date concert tour from november 5 to november 15, 2011, through north america and europe to promote both the mixtape and his other musical projects.
rolling stone reviewed the debut show, calling ocean awkward at times, though they stated that fortunately his dispassionately told stories of love and loss in a world that assumes impermanence could handle the load of the audience.
the set lists to the various shows varied, though singles swim good and novacane were performed at all shows.
others tracks like lovecrimes, dust and american wedding were performed at a majority of the shows, and strawberry swing we all try were performed four times each.
before the release of nostalgia, ultra, ocean was a relatively unknown artist who made a majority of his money from ghostwriting.
west also offered to appear on ocean's debut album, but ocean refused, saying as much as i want to work with you… i kind of want to do this without you.
i kind of want to do it on my own.
ocean quickly became odd future's main singing highlight, providing vocal hooks on odd future albums like blackenedwhite, goblin, and the odd future tape vol.
2. the record was nominated for best international album at the 2012 swedish grammis awards.
rolling stone named it the 24th best album of the year, writing the debut mixtape from the 24-year-old singer (and odd future member) is an avant-r&b killer.
the track novacane also received widespread critical acclaim.
it was listed as one of the best songs of the year by the new york times, in march 2012, controversy arose over the track american wedding, which samples the eagles' song hotel california.
don henley of the eagles had threatened legal action over ocean's track, claiming that ocean's version of the song was illegal.
a spokesman for the band announced that a lawsuit would be filed against ocean if performed the song live.
frank ocean did not merely 'sample' a portion of the eagles' hotel california; he took the whole master track, plus the song's existing melody, and replaced the lyrics with his own.
this is not creative, let alone 'intimidating.'
it's illegal.
for the record, don henley has not threatened or instituted any legal action against frank ocean, although the eagles are now considering whether they should.
several publications noted that the song was released for free on a non-profitable mixtape, and that live covers of famous songs are common in live performances, and that sampling is a common practice on mixtapes.
ocean responded to the controversy via his tumblr account: he (they) threatened to sue if i perform it again.
i think that's fuckin awesome.
i guess if i play it at coachella it'll cost me a couple hundred racks.
if i don't show up to court, it'll be a judgement against me & will probably show up on my credit report.
oh well.
i try to buy my shit cash anyway.
they asked that i release a statement expressing my admiration for mr. henley, along with my assistance pulling it off the web as much as possible.
shit's weird.
ain't this guy rich as fuck?
why sue the new guy?
i didn't make a dime off that song.
i released it for free.
if anything i'm paying homage.
ocean performed the song live occasionally with an altered arrangement not utilizing the original hotel california sample.
henley eventually spoke out on the controversy, defending his stance on the 2012 litigation threat and referring to ocean as talentless.
