channel orange (stylized as channel orange) is the debut studio album by american r&b singer and songwriter frank ocean.
it was released on july 10, 2012, by def jam recordings.
after releasing his mixtape nostalgia, ultra in 2011, ocean began writing new songs with malay, a producer and songwriter who assisted him with recording the album at eastwest studios in hollywood.
rather than rely on samples as he had with his mixtape, ocean wanted to approach sound and song structure differently on channel orange.
he titled the album as a reference to the neurological phenomenon grapheme-color synesthesia and the color he claimed to have perceived during the summer he first fell in love.
channel orange has an unconventional musical style, film-inspired segue tracks, and songs that draw on electro-funk, pop-soul, jazz-funk, and psychedelic music.
ocean's songwriting touches on themes such as unrequited love, decadence, class, and drugs through the use of surrealistic imagery, conversational devices, and descriptive narratives depicting dark characters.
his singing on the album exhibits free-form flow and alternating falsetto and tenor registers.
the album features guest appearances from odd future artists earl sweatshirt and tyler, the creator, along with appearances from andré 3000 and john mayer.
production is handled by ocean himself, om'mas keith, malay, and pharrell williams.
to prevent channel orange from leaking onto the internet, ocean and def jam released the album digitally one week earlier than its publicly announced date.
it was promoted with five singles, including ocean's highest charting single thinkin bout you—number 32 on the us billboard hot 100—and a supporting concert tour in july 2012. channel orange debuted at number two on the us billboard 200 and sold 131,000 copies in its first week.
it received widespread critical acclaim and was named the best album of 2012 by numerous publications.
by september 2014, the album had sold 621,000 copies, according to nielsen soundscan.
frustrated with def jam recordings' inactivity in his recording career, ocean released his debut mixtape nostalgia, ultra online for free in february 2011. ocean started writing songs for channel orange in february 2011 with songwriter and producer malay, his friend and creative partner since their start in the music industry as songwriters.
although ocean had creative freedom for both projects, he felt more confident as a songwriter for channel orange and typed his lyrics on a laptop rather than composing in his head as he had done for nostalgia, ultra.
in june 2012, during their writing sessions, malay noticed ocean's use of gender pronouns in his lyrics, but attributed it to ocean's poetic license rather than his sexuality.
once the songs were written, ocean ordered them into what ultimately became the album's track listing and began recording them in that order.
ocean recorded his vocals alone for several months, striving intensively for high performance standards, before rejoining malay for the album's production.
their production also emphasized instrumentation and was a departure for ocean after nostalgia, ultra's reliance on samples.
in the wake of nostalgia, ultra, other artists took interest in ocean and contacted him about working together, leading to collaborations on channel orange.
ocean and malay mixed channel orange at studio for the talented and gifted, and engineer spike stent mixed parts of the album at the mix suite in los angeles.
ocean titled the album as a reference to grapheme-color synesthesia, a neurological phenomenon in which an individual's perception of numbers and letters is associated with the experience of colors.
according to music journalists, channel orange has an unconventional musical style, less melodic and hook-oriented than nostalgia, ultra, —ken tucker, npr channel orange has themes of unrequited love, ocean's songwriting uses descriptive narratives, the opening track start is a snippet of ambient sounds, sweet life and super rich kids depict decadent, pyramids is cited by writers as the album's centerpiece.
pink matter is a bluesy lament with themes of sex and betrayal, to prevent channel orange from leaking onto the internet, ocean planned to release it digitally one week earlier than its publicly announced date.
channel orange was sold exclusively through itunes until july 17, when it was released to other digital retailers.
channel orange debuted at number two on the us billboard 200 and sold 131,000 copies in its first week.
channel orange was met with widespread critical acclaim.
at metacritic, which assigns a normalized rating out of 100 to reviews from mainstream publications, the album received an average score of 92, based on 46 reviews.
reviewing the album for allmusic, andy kellman wrote that ocean's descriptive and subtle storytelling is taken to a higher level than on nostalgia, ultra, some reviewers were more qualified in their praise.
in rolling stone, jody rosen preferred the album's more structured songs and argued that ocean sometimes seemed to be less a songwriter than a purveyor of formless grooves.
at the end of 2012, channel orange was named the year's best album by numerous publications, including the chicago sun-times, chicago tribune, billboard, entertainment weekly, the guardian, the los angeles times, the sydney morning herald, now, paste, popmatters, slant magazine, spin, and the washington post.
ocean supported the album with a 14-date north american tour during july 2012. along with songs from nostalgia, ultra and channel orange, ocean performed made in america, his unreleased songs summer remains and voodoo, and covers of prince's when you were mine (1980), beyoncé's i miss you (2011), after the tour, ocean was slated to perform at several music festivals, credits are adapted from the american society of composers, authors and publishers (ascap) notes sample credits credits are adapted from the album's liner notes.
^shipments figures based on certification alone
