sweet life is a song by american singer frank ocean, released as the third single from his debut studio album channel orange (2012).
the song was written and produced by ocean and pharrell williams, member of the production duo the neptunes.
the track was released on july 6, 2012, when ocean posted a download of the song onto his tumblr account, and it debuted on itunes on july 12. the song features a vocal loop, warm horn sections and lush, tropical production.
the song explores a disillusionment and wealth within ladera heights and lyrically explores a narrative of people wasting their life away on the beach and ocean's desire not to involve himself with such a life.
the song draws inspiration from ocean's own early life.
the song received overwhelmingly positive reviews from critics who praised its smooth production, the social commentary found within ocean's lyrics, and the concepts featured within the song.
some writers described it as a highlight from the album, and it was widely compared to the work of soul singer stevie wonder.
the track charted on the south korea gaon international chart at position 124. ocean performed sweet life during his channel orange tour through north america.
following the success of ocean's mixtape nostalgia, ultra, it was reported that ocean was getting calls from several large producers wishing to collaborate with him.
in an interview with vibe in 2011, williams commented the following on ocean: to me ocean accepted williams' offer, and the two went into the studio to record songs together.
sweet life is a smooth r&b track with a 1970s aesthetic.
the song is set in ladera heights, california, declared as the black beverly hills by ocean.
the track has drawn comparisons to the style of 808s & heartbreak, a studio album by rapper kanye west noted for its jarring use of auto-tune.
sweet life was raved by music critics.
john calvert of the quietus described the song as really big.
like r. kelly's i believe i can fly big.
like superman eating a super hotdog while fighting king kong while...ok you get the picture.
if you were looking around for a high concept pitch-style descriptor, with its synth brass and philly soul strings you might call it 'stevie wonder meets n.e.r.d in space'.
but then that would be too simplistic a definition for the multifaceted, resolutely accomplished 'sweet thing'.
greg kot, writer for the chicago tribune, stated that the track seduces like a drug dealer, with ocean crooning over a laid-back rhythm.
musicomh's laurence green praised sweet life, commenting, and sweet it is, a joyous affirmation to living life with eyes open wide, soaking up the experiences of youth.
