blonde (alternatively titled blond) studio album by american singer frank ocean.
it was released on august 20, 2016, as a timed exclusive on the itunes store and apple music, and followed the august 19 release of ocean's video album endless.
blonde features an abstract and experimental sound in comparison to ocean's previous releases, and includes guest vocals from andré 3000, beyoncé, yung lean and kim burrell, among others.
production was handled by ocean himself, alongside a variety of high-profile record producers, including malay and om'mas keith, who collaborated with ocean on channel orange, as well as james blake, jon brion, buddy ross, pharrell williams and rostam batmanglij, among others.
initially known as boys don't cry and teased for a july 2015 release, the album suffered several delays and was the subject of widespread media anticipation leading up to its release.
the album was supported by lead single, nikes.
it debuted at number one in several countries, including the united states and the united kingdom, and in its first week recorded sales of 232,000 copies (275,000 with album-equivalent units).
the album received widespread acclaim from critics and appeared on the year-end lists of 2016, with metacritic naming it the third most critically acclaimed album of the year by music publications.
on february 21, 2013, ocean confirmed that he had started work on his next studio album, which he confirmed would be another concept album.
he revealed that he was working with tyler, the creator, pharrell williams, and danger mouse on the record.
in april 2014, ocean stated that his second album was nearly finished.
in june 2014, billboard reported that the singer was working with a string of artists such as happy perez (whom he worked with on nostalgia, ultra), charlie gambetta and kevin ristro, while producers hit-boy, rodney jerkins and danger mouse were also said to be on board.
blonde features an abstract, atmospheric sound in comparison to ocean's previous work, and utilizes a variety of unconventional musical elements.
discussing its musical eclecticism, rolling stone wrote that this is an r&b album in only the most elastic and expansive sense of the term and noted that minimalist rock guitar and simple electric keyboard work drive numerous songs; twitchy rhythms and bizarre vocal effects creep in from the edges.
songs change shape subtly as they go, rarely ending in the same place they began.
the daily telegraph noted ocean's use of varispeed and auto-tune effects on his voice, on april 6, 2015, ocean announced that his follow-up to channel orange would be released in july, as well as a publication, although no further details were released.
the album was ultimately not released in july, with no explanation given for its delay.
the publication was rumored to be called boys don't cry, and was slated to feature the aforementioned memrise, although the track did not make the final track listing.
on july 2, 2016, ocean hinted at a possible third album with an image on his website pointing to a july release date.
the image shows a library card labeled boys don't cry with numerous stamps, implying various due dates.
the dates begin with july 2, 2015, and conclude with july 2016, and november 13, 2016. ocean's brother, ryan breaux, further suggested this release with an instagram caption of the same library card photo reading boys don't cry #july2016.
on august 1, 2016, a video appeared that showed ocean woodworking and sporadically playing instrumentals on loop.
rather than going on a typical promotional tour playing radio festivals and appearing on television shows, ocean spent a month after the release of blonde, traveling to countries such as china, japan and france.
he also chose not to submit blonde for consideration at the grammy awards, stating that institution certainly has nostalgic importance... it just doesn't seem to be representing very well for people who come from where i come from, and hold down what i hold down.
blonde was met with widespread critical acclaim.
at metacritic, which assigns a normalized rating out of 100 to reviews from mainstream publications, the album received an average score of 87, based on 38 reviews.
neil mccormick was somewhat less enthusiastic.
in the daily telegraph, he wrote that blonde should be celebrated as part of a generational shift away from the obvious in pop, while finding the record to be meandering, contemplative and introverted, suggesting that it would be a laborious experience for some listeners.
at the end of 2016, blonde appeared on a number of critics' lists ranking the year's top albums.
according to metacritic, it was the third most prominently ranked album of 2016. in the first week of release, blonde debuted at number one on the us billboard 200 and recorded 276,000 album-equivalent units—232,000 of which were purchases of the entire album.
credits are adapted from the album's liner notes.
notes samples production and arrangement musicians technical personnel design ^shipments figures based on certification alone
