endless is a video album by american singer frank ocean.
released on august 19, 2016, endless was ocean's last release with the record label def jam recordings to fulfill his recording contract.
endless was distributed exclusively through apple music as a streaming-only video and was followed by the august 20 release of ocean's second studio album, blonde.
endless was later remastered and reissued on cd and vinyl on april 10, 2018, almost two years after its premiere.
on february 21, 2013, ocean confirmed that he had started work on his second studio album, which he confirmed would be another concept album.
he revealed that he was working with tyler, the creator, pharrell williams, and danger mouse on the record.
in april 2014, ocean stated that his second album was nearly finished.
in june 2014, billboard reported that the singer was working with a string of artists including happy perez, charlie gambetta and kevin ristro (whom he worked with on nostalgia, ultra), as well as hit-boy, rodney jerkins and danger mouse.
on july 2, 2016, he hinted at a possible second album with an image on his website pointing to a july release date.
the image shows a library card labeled boys don't cry with numerous stamps, implying various due dates.
the dates begin with july 2, 2015 and conclude with july 2016 and november 13, 2016. frank's brother, ryan breaux, further suggested this release with an instagram caption of the same library card photo reading boys don't cry #july2016.
on august 1, 2016, a video appeared that showed frank ocean woodworking and sporadically playing instrumentals on loop.
on april 24, 2017, ocean aired a remix of the track slide on me on his radio show blonded radio featuring american artist young thug.
on november 27, 2017, as part of cyber monday, frank ocean started selling physical copies of endless on his website along with new merchandise.
the new, remastered version of the album is available on vinyl, cd/dvd and vhs.
endless received generally positive reviews from critics.
at metacritic, which assigns a normalized rating out of 100 to reviews from mainstream publications, the album received an average score of 74, based on 13 reviews.
in the guardian, tim jonze said ocean mixed the pop with the avant-garde on endless, calling it a rich, varied and – at times – challenging musical feast, however noting that much of this album floats by hazily and with no clear direction.
spin magazine's brian josephs was more critical, believing it did not work as an album.
as a whole, endless feels formless, josephs wrote, like pretty, curlicue-flaunting cursive with no adherence to notebook margins.
all tracks produced by frank ocean, vegyn, troy noka and michael uzowuru, except where noted.
notes sample credits vocalists other musicians production technical design notes
