lost is a song by american singer frank ocean.
it was released as the fourth single from his debut studio album channel orange (2012).
the song was written by ocean, micah otano and malay; production was handled by the latter.
the single has also been covered by american record production trio major lazer, featuring vocals from danish singer mø, along with english electro band swiss lips.
lost is an r&b lost has received high praise and acclaim among critics, praising ocean's idiosyncratic style and pop sensibilities as well as malay, the album's prominent producer.
it is often referred to as a highlight on his debut studio album channel orange and is his most straightforward pop song.
lost debuted at number 91 on the australian singles chart on the chart issue dated for the week of october 17, 2012 lost achieved its greatest level of success in new zealand.
the song debuted on the new zealand singles chart at number 32, peaking at number 5 three weeks later and becoming ocean's first top-ten single.
the song was eventually certified gold and subsequently platinum by the recording industry association of new zealand (rianz) in its fifth and ninth week on the chart, respectively.
^shipments figures based on certification alonesales+streaming figures based on certification alone lost is a song recorded by major lazer, the song's release was originally hinted in may 2015 with the release of a 10-second preview snippet on twitter.
the song at that point was unfinished and the album and release date were still to be confirmed.
following the eager anticipation of ocean's new album, boys don't cry, major lazer initially wanted to demonstrate their production credentials and hint the release of ocean's album, which was expected to be released on july 20. mø had previously collaborated with major lazer for the lead single in the album lean on, which ended up becoming a worldwide hit, reaching the top 10 in the us and topping the billboard dance/electronic songs chart.
the cover art for the song features a cartoon depiction of a circular enclosed maze, at the centre of which is a peace sign, referencing the song's title and major lazer's latest album.
the song was well received by music critics, the song was also named as one of the 5 biggest songs for the week of (july 24, 2015) by capital xtra.
mø performed the song live at the sziget festival on august 13, 2015, without a backing track.
she later performed the song at the grapefestival on august 15, 2015. on june 4, 2016, the song was issued for a live performance at the orange warsaw festival.
