Beyoncé isn’t the only one hitting the lab with Odd Future’s resident crooner Frank Ocean.  The singer-songwriter recently put in studio time with Nas, revealing that he was cooking up some new material with the hip-hop veteran.“Just played nas a song…on piano. in that moment i realized, im getting a lil better at piano. i gotta keep practicing though,” tweeted Ocean. “yea. nas. like ‘top 5 dead or alive’ nas.”Though unclear where the collaboration will end up, Nas confirmed the duo was creating music together.  “In the studio with my little n—a @frank_ocean,” he wrote.A video for Ocean’s nostalgia, ultra cut “Songs for Women” surfaced online last week, but he denied its authenticity.  “not my video,” tweeted Ocean, adding, “sorry. but that songs for women video was a fail.”Tweets by RapUp Tory Lanez and Joyner Lucas are going bar for bar.

During an Instagram Live session, the Love Me Now? rapper-singer ignited …Tory Lanez wants more smoke.

In the midst of a rap battle with Joyner Lucas, the "MiAMi" rapper-singer has set his …Cardi B is making more money moves.

The chart-topping rapper has purchased a multi-million-dollar "dream home" for her mother in her …Tekashi 6ix9ine is spending Thanksgiving in a federal facility.

The "FEFE" rapper has been transferred from Brooklyn's Metropolitan Detention Center to …6ix9ine is not receiving any special treatment as he awaits his bail hearing.

The rapper's lawyer, Lance Lazzaro, tells TMZ that …6ix9ine's album has been put on hold.

Following his arrest on racketeering and firearms charges, the rapper's debut album Dummy Boy …Round 3. Joyner Lucas and Tory Lanez's rap battle continues with yet another remix.

Following Tory's "Lucky You" freestyle and their …While he awaits his bail hearing, 6ix9ine is sparking more controversy for ordering a hit on Chief Keef's cousin.

In the …Nicki Minaj and Lil Wayne have another collaboration on the way.

Young Money royalty will reunite on the remix to Nicki's …Mariah Carey is eyeing an all-star collaboration with two of the biggest female MCs.

During her appearance on Bravo's "Watch What …While he awaits his bail hearing, 6ix9ine is sparking more controversy for ordering a hit on Chief Keef's cousin.

In the …Go Kelly go! Five years since her last album, Kelly Rowland returned with new music on Thanksgiving night. 

On the …This that Z sh*t. Kodak Black celebrates Black Friday by unleashing a video for his hit "ZEZE" featuring Travis Scott …Round 3. Joyner Lucas and Tory Lanez's rap battle continues with yet another remix.

Following Tory's "Lucky You" freestyle and their …Meek Mill is giving his fans new music this Thanksgiving.

As he gears up for his new album Championships next week, …Tekashi 6ix9ine is spending Thanksgiving in a federal facility.

The "FEFE" rapper has been transferred from Brooklyn's Metropolitan Detention Center to …Nicki Minaj is standing by 6ix9ine's side.

Following his indictment for racketeering, armed robbery, and drug trafficking, the embattled MC is …H.E.R. paid tribute to the King of Pop during her stirring late-night performance on "Jimmy Kimmel Live!"

With a guitar in …Tory Lanez wants more smoke.

In the midst of a rap battle with Joyner Lucas, the "MiAMi" rapper-singer has set his …Kanye West is giving back this Thanksgiving.

During her appearance on "The Ellen DeGeneres Show," Kim Kardashian announced that West, Yeezy, …%post_excerpt%

Kid Cudi's rock project Wizard is no more.  Instead, the Lonely Stoner has announced that he has changed the …

Kid Cudi's rock project Wizard is no more.  Instead, the Lonely Stoner has announced that he has changed the …

Nicki Minaj and Britney Spears partied like it was 2012 during the after-party for Lil Wayne's "I Am Still Music" …

Nicki Minaj and Britney Spears partied like it was 2012 during the after-party for Lil Wayne's "I Am Still Music" …