
              'I hear what he's sayin', and I relate,' Queens MC tells MTV News about collaborating with the 'Novacane' singer.
        
          Everyone loves OFWGKTA. In an exclusive sit-down with MTV News, [artist id="1000"]Nas[/artist] spoke on his upcoming work with Odd Future singer/songwriter Frank Ocean.
In April, the Illmatic rapper tweeted, "In the studio with my little n---a @frank_ocean," and just last week he opened up to Sway about the collaboration and Ocean's appeal.
"He's new, he's fresh. He doesn't sound fly-by-night. The moment you hear it — I hear what he's sayin', and I relate. He got me as soon as I heard it," Nas said.
The Queensbridge MC, who, like Ocean, is signed to Def Jam, feels that the 23-year-old talent has already proved he has chops. "He's a Def Jam artist that's been slept-on and he's proven himself. He's proven himself and I think he has a lot to offer," the rapper explained. "We met, he played some music and we're excited. We'll see what happens. Nothing's totally complete, but we have started recording some things."
Frank Ocean has earned critical acclaim thanks to the release of Nostalgia, Ultra, a free Internet album he released on his Tumblr page in February. The album's de facto single, "Novacane," has gained momentum, debuting at #65 this week on Billboard's R&B/Hip-Hop Songs chart. In addition to Nas, the singer has been in the studio writing for Justin Bieber, Brandy and John Legend and recently had a session with Beyoncé.
Are you excited about this upcoming Nas and Frank Ocean collaboration? Tell us in the comments!

 
In April, the Illmatic rapper tweeted, "In the studio with my little n---a @frank_ocean," and just last week he opened up to Sway about the collaboration and Ocean's appeal."He's new, he's fresh. He doesn't sound fly-by-night. The moment you hear it — I hear what he's sayin', and I relate. He got me as soon as I heard it," Nas said.The Queensbridge MC, who, like Ocean, is signed to Def Jam, feels that the 23-year-old talent has already proved he has chops. "He's a Def Jam artist that's been slept-on and he's proven himself. He's proven himself and I think he has a lot to offer," the rapper explained. "We met, he played some music and we're excited. We'll see what happens. Nothing's totally complete, but we have started recording some things."Frank Ocean has earned critical acclaim thanks to the release of Nostalgia, Ultra, a free Internet album he released on his Tumblr page in February. The album's de facto single, "Novacane," has gained momentum, debuting at #65 this week on Billboard's R&B/Hip-Hop Songs chart. In addition to Nas, the singer has been in the studio writing for Justin Bieber, Brandy and John Legend and recently had a session with Beyoncé.Are you excited about this upcoming Nas and Frank Ocean collaboration? Tell us in the comments!© 2018 Viacom International Inc. All Rights Reserved. MTV and all related titles and logos are trademarks of Viacom International Inc.