
Fall! It's a time for light coats and a (thankfully) more diverse wardrobe than the slight variations on tees and rolled up pants that we've been wearing all summer. It's also the time for our Fall Fashion issue, which is more jam packed than ever before. On one cover we've got Frank Ocean, who has recently become more ubiquitous than he probably ever imagined. From his heartfelt mixtape Nostalgia, Ultra to his two—TWO!—appearances on Jay-Z and Kanye's Watch The Throne, the man is (deservedly) everywhere. On the flip, we've got The Rapture, who are returning to music for the first time since 2006's Pieces of the People We Love, with In the Grace of Your Love, a gorgeous dance record filled with plenty of transcendent moments to soundtrack summer's wane. 2006 was a long time ago, though. What have they been doing? Where have they been? What was the hold up? The story of the rise and fall (and rise again) of The Rapture adds an extra 75 levels to their music. 
Between the covers, we've got a feature on a new crop of inspiringly experimental artists from Austin, Texas that are living out an endless summer while making some of the most gorgeous slow rock and cosmic synth jams around. It wouldn't be a fashion issue without fashion, though. We went to Ho Chi Minh City for a gorgeous photo shoot and also pooled our talents to find some of the best young women designing menswear around. Trust that every dude you know will probably be wearing their clothes by this time next year. But that's not all! There's more. So, so much more. We've got Gen Fs on Balam Acab, Alex Clare, Main Attrakionz, Nguzunguzu, 2:54 and Unknown Mortal Orchestra as well as all the single pages and bits in the front of the book that you've come to know and love. We're extra proud of this one. Hope you like it!
Head over to our Facebook page to preview exclusive photos and text from FADER #75. 
Fall! It's a time for light coats and a (thankfully) more diverse wardrobe than the slight variations on tees and rolled up pants that we've been wearing all summer. It's also the time for our Fall Fashion issue, which is more jam packed than ever before. On one cover we've got Frank Ocean, who has recently become more ubiquitous than he probably ever imagined. From his heartfelt mixtape Nostalgia, Ultra to his two—TWO!—appearances on Jay-Z and Kanye's Watch The Throne, the man is (deservedly) everywhere. On the flip, we've got The Rapture, who are returning to music for the first time since 2006's Pieces of the People We Love, with In the Grace of Your Love, a gorgeous dance record filled with plenty of transcendent moments to soundtrack summer's wane. 2006 was a long time ago, though. What have they been doing? Where have they been? What was the hold up? The story of the rise and fall (and rise again) of The Rapture adds an extra 75 levels to their music. Between the covers, we've got a feature on a new crop of inspiringly experimental artists from Austin, Texas that are living out an endless summer while making some of the most gorgeous slow rock and cosmic synth jams around. It wouldn't be a fashion issue without fashion, though. We went to Ho Chi Minh City for a gorgeous photo shoot and also pooled our talents to find some of the best young women designing menswear around. Trust that every dude you know will probably be wearing their clothes by this time next year. But that's not all! There's more. So, so much more. We've got Gen Fs on Balam Acab, Alex Clare, Main Attrakionz, Nguzunguzu, 2:54 and Unknown Mortal Orchestra as well as all the single pages and bits in the front of the book that you've come to know and love. We're extra proud of this one. Hope you like it!Head over to our Facebook page to preview exclusive photos and text from FADER #75. 