Frank Ocean is carving out his own lane.  A Frankie look-alike gets behind the wheel of a race car in an arcade on the cover art for the Odd Future affiliate’s new single “Thinkin Bout You.”The tender ballad, which he originally penned for Roc Nation songstress Bridget Kelly, will be released to digital retailers on April 17, while Frank’s Def Jam debut is due later this year.“It succinctly defines me as an artist for where I am right now and that was the aim,” he said of the follow-up to the acclaimed Nostalgia, Ultra.  “It’s about the stories. If I write 14 stories that I love, then the next step is to get the environment of music around it to best envelop the story and all kinds of sonic goodness.”Tweets by RapUp Tory Lanez and Joyner Lucas are going bar for bar.

During an Instagram Live session, the Love Me Now? rapper-singer ignited …Tory Lanez wants more smoke.

In the midst of a rap battle with Joyner Lucas, the "MiAMi" rapper-singer has set his …Cardi B is making more money moves.

The chart-topping rapper has purchased a multi-million-dollar "dream home" for her mother in her …Tekashi 6ix9ine is spending Thanksgiving in a federal facility.

The "FEFE" rapper has been transferred from Brooklyn's Metropolitan Detention Center to …6ix9ine is not receiving any special treatment as he awaits his bail hearing.

The rapper's lawyer, Lance Lazzaro, tells TMZ that …6ix9ine's album has been put on hold.

Following his arrest on racketeering and firearms charges, the rapper's debut album Dummy Boy …Round 3. Joyner Lucas and Tory Lanez's rap battle continues with yet another remix.

Following Tory's "Lucky You" freestyle and their …While he awaits his bail hearing, 6ix9ine is sparking more controversy for ordering a hit on Chief Keef's cousin.

In the …Nicki Minaj and Lil Wayne have another collaboration on the way.

Young Money royalty will reunite on the remix to Nicki's …Mariah Carey is eyeing an all-star collaboration with two of the biggest female MCs.

During her appearance on Bravo's "Watch What …While he awaits his bail hearing, 6ix9ine is sparking more controversy for ordering a hit on Chief Keef's cousin.

In the …Go Kelly go! Five years since her last album, Kelly Rowland returned with new music on Thanksgiving night. 

On the …This that Z sh*t. Kodak Black celebrates Black Friday by unleashing a video for his hit "ZEZE" featuring Travis Scott …Round 3. Joyner Lucas and Tory Lanez's rap battle continues with yet another remix.

Following Tory's "Lucky You" freestyle and their …Meek Mill is giving his fans new music this Thanksgiving.

As he gears up for his new album Championships next week, …Tekashi 6ix9ine is spending Thanksgiving in a federal facility.

The "FEFE" rapper has been transferred from Brooklyn's Metropolitan Detention Center to …Nicki Minaj is standing by 6ix9ine's side.

Following his indictment for racketeering, armed robbery, and drug trafficking, the embattled MC is …H.E.R. paid tribute to the King of Pop during her stirring late-night performance on "Jimmy Kimmel Live!"

With a guitar in …Tory Lanez wants more smoke.

In the midst of a rap battle with Joyner Lucas, the "MiAMi" rapper-singer has set his …Kanye West is giving back this Thanksgiving.

During her appearance on "The Ellen DeGeneres Show," Kim Kardashian announced that West, Yeezy, …%post_excerpt%

Nina Sky took it back with a killer cover of Destiny's Child's "Say My Name" during their show at New …

Nina Sky took it back with a killer cover of Destiny's Child's "Say My Name" during their show at New …

Beyoncé is going digital.  The pop superstar has relaunched her website and sent out her first tweet.  Beyonce.com …

Beyoncé is going digital.  The pop superstar has relaunched her website and sent out her first tweet.  Beyonce.com …