
                'Carl Weber's The Family Business' Official Promo
            
                The Girls Gather Dani
            
                French Montana Tells Raquel There’s No Bad Blood With The Kardashians 
            
                Fans Will Not Be Happy About This Male R&B Singer Calling Out Beyoncé, SZA And Cardi B 
            
                Hip-Hop Reacts To The Tragic Death Of Leah LaBelle
            
                French Montana: The American Dream
            
                Made You Look: During The Rise Of Hip Hop's Most Extravagant Era, A New Star Was Born — The Video Vixen | VIXEN.
            
                Spike Lee And Topher Grace On Using The N-Word
            
                Producer Will Packer On The Set Of 'What Men Want'
            
                #Couplecam: Karrueche And Victor Cruz Just Landed Smoking HOT Holiday Campaign
            
                Watch Cardi B Slay A Sexy Trench While Nailing Her Role As A Personal Assistant For Amazon
            
                See How Yusef Williams Became Rihanna's Hairstylist For A Decade
            
                See How Meagan Good Uplifted Leslie Jones With A Moving, Body-Posi Message
            
                The Revolution Will Be Televised! Auntie Maxine's Got A Message For Trump!
            
                Ms. New Booty!: K. Michelle Debuts Her Real Butt After Getting Implants Removed
            
                Michelle Obama Hilariously Breaks Down Why Melania Trump's Inauguration Gift Exchange Appeared So Awkward
            
                This 13-Year-Old Cheerleader Serving Some Serious Sassy Face Is Taking Over Twitter As Everyone's New Favorite Meme 
            
                Man Films Racist Old Navy Encounter Where Store Managers Accused Him Of Stealing The Jacket He Wore To The Store
            
                Check Out Who's Being Interviewed on 'Raq Rants'!
            
                Extras & Exclusives
            
                Soul Train Awards
            Published July 9, 2012In less than a week, R&B musician and Odd Future member Frank Ocean has gone from urban music fame to garnering mainstream support for his personal decision to publicly reveal he fell in love with a man. Set to release his first studio album, Channel Orange, on July 17, Ocean’s manager, Kelly Clancy, tweeted some great news about his July tour: "Frank Ocean’s national July tour is sold out in ALL cities…" With 15 cities lined up between July 13 and August 4, Ocean will start in Seattle, making his way to Vancouver, San Francisco, Los Angeles, Austin, Dallas, Atlanta, Washington, DC, Philadelphia, New York, Boston, Montreal, Toronto and Detroit. He’ll end in Chicago at the Lollapalooza Festival on August 4. BET.com Entertainment Editor Clay Cane predicted that Ocean’s success would only catapult after vulnerably sharing the details of his sexuality. He wrote: "Mark my words: Frank Ocean admitting his sexual fluidity will not ruin his career. There will be a reward for his honesty. Living in his truth will make the doors swing open like they never did before." With a sold out tour and high acclaim for his first album, Ocean, who proclaimed himself a "free man," seems to be on the rise. The Odd Future crooner will perform on Late Night with Jimmy Fallon tonight at 12:35 a.m./11:35 p.m. CT. BET.com is your #1 source for Black celebrity news, photos, exclusive videos and all the latest in the world of hip hop and R&B music. Click here to subscribe to our newsletter.   (Photo: Karl Walter/Getty Images for Coachella)Written by Arielle Loren


                    TRENDING IN
                
NEWS
The former FLOTUS also explained to Ellen Degeneres how Barack stepped in and saved the day. 
"When my teacher asks me a question thinking I'm not paying attention, but I get it right."
James Conley III says the employees never apologized after they realized their mistake. 
daysPresented by