DJ-producer has been teasing the track in recent weeksCalvin Harris has confirmed details of a forthcoming collaboration with Frank Ocean and Migos.The Scottish DJ-producer has been teasing the collaboration over the past few weeks on Snapchat.He has now taken to Twitter to reveal that the song will be called ‘Slide’. It’s not yet known when it will be released.‘Slide’ will be a rare collaboration from Ocean, as well as his first piece of new music since last year’s albums ‘Blonde’ and ‘Endless’.CALVIN HARRIS // FRANK OCEAN // MIGOS pic.twitter.com/UvsJzm9F6k— Calvin Harris (@CalvinHarris) February 21, 2017Hear preview snippets of ‘Slide’ beneath:

Harris had previously been pictured heading to the studio with Ocean last summer.Last week, Calvin Harris took to Twitter to announced that he has “more joyful music” coming in 2017, adding that he feels like “it’s missing from the world. And it was missing from my life. So I created it!”Harris added: “I worked with the greatest artists of our generation !!! I’m in the mixing stage now. I listen back and can’t believe what we created… In 2017 I’m making music to make your soul happy !!!! Not feel good music. Feel INCREDIBLE music”.See those tweets below:More joyful music in 2017.  I feel like it's missing from the world. And it was missing from my life. So I created it !!!!— Calvin Harris (@CalvinHarris) February 15, 2017I worked with the greatest artists of our generation !!! I'm in the mixing stage now. I listen back and can't believe what we created !!!!!— Calvin Harris (@CalvinHarris) February 15, 2017So excited to share this with you !!! !! Can u tell— Calvin Harris (@CalvinHarris) February 15, 2017In 2017 I'm making music to make your soul happy !!!!— Calvin Harris (@CalvinHarris) February 15, 2017Not feel good music. Feel INCREDIBLE music— Calvin Harris (@CalvinHarris) February 15, 2017Meanwhile, Frank Ocean won Best International Male Artist at last week’s VO5 NME Awards 2017. Also shortlisted in the category were Kanye West, Drake, Chance The Rapper, The Weeknd and Kendrick Lamar.Ocean did not turn up to the ceremony at London’s O2 Academy Brixton or send a video acceptance speech. Instead, guest presenter Matt Berry accepted the award on his behalf. “Sorry to piss on your chips, but Frank Ocean couldn’t make it. So it’s mine,” he said.