

7/4/2012

by


Erika Ramirez
 
Early this morning (July 4), Frank Ocean took to his Tumblr to post a personal statement in which he opens up about his sexuality. In the piece, which he intended to "fill the thank you's section" in the credits of his upcoming album, "Channel Orange," Ocean shares details of falling in love with a man.   "4 summers ago, I met somebody. I was 19 years old. He was too. We spent that summer, and the summer after, together. Every day almost, and on the day we were together, time would glide. Most of the day I'd see him, and his smile. By the time I realized I was in love, it was malignant. It was hopeless," Ocean writes.  21 Great Gay Moments In Music Ocean continues to share more of the relationship, closing with, "I feel like a free man. If I listen closely... I can hear the sky falling too."   Odd Future's Tyler, the Creator took to Twitter to congratulate Ocean for his bravery, "Fucking Finally Sus Boy @frank_ocean Hahahaha, You Still Aint Got No Bitches Hahaha My Nigga Dawg." "My Big Brother Finally Fucking Did That. Proud Of That Nigga Cause I KNow That Shit Is Difficult Or Whatever," he tweeted.   Ocean's admirable statement comes two days after rumors of bisexuality spread like wildfire over the 'net. After listening to his debut album, "Channel Orange," a BBC1 Xtra's Max writer posted a review of the album in which she says that by Ocean using terms as "him" instead of "her" it suggests he's bi-sexual.   "BASEDGOD WAS RIGHT. we're all a bunch of golden million dollar babies. my hope is that the babies born these days will inherit less of hte bullshit than we did. anyhow, what I'm about to post is for anyone who cares to read. it was intended to fill the thank you's section in my album credits, but with all the rumors going around.. i figured it'd be good to clarify.." Ocean wrote, before sharing details of his same-sex relationship.The online extension of Billboard Magazine, billboard.biz is the essential online destination for the music business.Learn More© 2018 Billboard. All Rights Reserved.
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
About Our Ads
Advertising

Billboard is a subsidiary of Prometheus Global Media, LLC.
