Frank Ocean has finally found his own personal freedom this Independence Day.The Odd Future rapper and Kanye West's protege came out in a message on his Tumblr early Wednesday morning, confessing that his "first love" was with a man."4 summers ago, I met somebody," he wrote. "I was 19 years old. He was too. We spent that summer, and the summer after, together."By the time I realized I was in love, it was malignant. It was hopeless. There was no escaping, no negotiating with the feeling. No choice. It was my first love, it changed my life."Ocean, 24, goes on to detail the relationship, and how he struggled to come to terms with his sexuality.PHOTOS: STARS WHO'VE COME OUT"In the last year or 3 I've screamed at my creator," he admitted. "Screamed at clouds in the sky. For some explanation. Mercy maybe. For peace of mind to rain like manna somehow."The singer's post comes hot on the heels of speculation about his sexuality after a writer from BBC1 Xtra's Max wrote a review pointing out his use of the pronoun "him" instead of "her" on several tracks on his upcoming album "Channel Orange."The confession marks a groundbreaking moment in the hip hop world, as Ocean is one of the first artists to come out about his sexuality.Russell Simmons wrote a statement of support for Ocean on his website Global Grind, lauding the up-and-coming talent for his bravery."Today is a big day for hip-hop. It is a day that will define who we really are. How compassionate will we be? How loving can we be? How inclusive are we?" he wrote."I am profoundly moved by the courage and honesty of Frank Ocean. Your decision to go public about your sexual orientation gives hope and light to so many young people still living in fear. These types of secrets should not matter anymore."His gifts are undeniable. His talent, enormous. His bravery, incredible. ... Frank, we thank you. We support you. We love you."PHOTOS: SAME SEX STAR COUPLESOcean's bandmate Tyler the Creator similarly expressed his support."F--king Finally Sus Boy @frank_ocean Hahahaha, You Still Aint Got No B---hes Hahaha My N---a Dawg," he tweeted. "My Big Brother Finally F--king Did That. Proud Of That N---a Cause I KNow That Sh-t Is Difficult Or Whatever."Ocean explains in his post that he did end up confessing his feelings to his summer love, but it took three years for the other man to express his feelings.The R&B; singer doesn't specify his current relationship status, but writes that he's hopeful for the future."I don't know what happens now, and that's alrite. I don't have any secrets I need to keep anymore. ....I feel like a free man. If I listen closely ... I can hear the sky falling too."jchen@nydailynews.com